title: "Armstrap Eagle and PlatformIO",
date: '2015-08-08'
;;;
{% extends 'default.html' %}
{% block content %}
{% markdown %}

# {{title}}

In an attempt to learn more about microcontrollers I've recently acquired an
[Armstrap Eagle](http://armstrap.org/). This board is a significant departure
from the simple (but limited) hardware and toolchain of Arduino fame,
leveraging the strength of an ARM Cortex M4 and packed with extra features like
a real-time clock and a powerful debugger. Following the documentation on the
site, I was able to get a distribution of Eclipse running, able to compile,
flash, and debug programs on the chip - but I wanted to see if I could do it
another way.

I had previously used the fantastic tool
[PlatformIO](http://platformio.org/) to build and flash my Arduino programs -
it's simple to use and manages your libraries for you, which is great. Luckily
there's already a board configuration for the Armstrap, but there's some
additional steps that must be taken to actually get it working.

## Initialize

First, create a folder for your project and initialize the PlatformIO project
inside of it (replace 2048 with your board's memory size if necessary):

```
platformio init --board armstrap_eagle2048
```

## Configure PlatformIO

In `platformio.ini`, add `spl` to the framework list. This adds support for
the ST Standard Peripheral Library. Also, set the `upload_protocol` to `gdb`,
since the default ST-Link uploader won't work with the Armstrap Eagle.

Your `platformio.ini` should look something like this:

```ini
[env:armstrap_eagle2048]
platform = ststm32
framework = cmsis,spl
board = armstrap_eagle2048
targets = upload
upload_protocol = gdb
```

## Configure gdb
For uploading to work, we have to create a script `upload.gdb` that will tell
gdb what to do.

```
target extended /dev/cu.usbmodem7B407FD1
monitor swdp_scan
attach 1
load
detach
quit
```

Most of this is taken from [here](http://docs.armstrap.org/en/latest/getting-started-eclipse-development-tools.html#configuring-c-c-development-tools-for-armstrap-boards-eclipse-edition-for-first-use).

You can use 

```
platformio serialports list
```

to get the serial port path if `/dev/cu.usbmodem7B407FD1` doesn't work.

## Program

Here's an example `src/main.cpp` which will blink the on-board LED:

```c++
#include <stm32f4xx_gpio.h>
#include <stm32f4xx_rcc.h>

void setup() {
	RCC_AHB1PeriphClockCmd(RCC_AHB1Periph_GPIOC, ENABLE);

	GPIO_InitTypeDef gpioInit;
	GPIO_StructInit(&gpioInit);
	gpioInit.GPIO_Mode = GPIO_Mode_OUT;
	gpioInit.GPIO_Pin = GPIO_Pin_1;
	GPIO_Init(GPIOC, &gpioInit);
}

void delay(uint32_t ms) {
	ms *= 3360;
	while (ms--) {
		__NOP();
	}
}

void loop() {
	GPIO_ToggleBits(GPIOC, GPIO_Pin_1);
	delay(250);
}

int main() {
	setup();
	while (true)
		loop();
	return 0;
}
```

## Run

To upload to the board, simply run:

```
platformio run
```

{% endmarkdown %}
{% endblock %}
